Ch 11 - Inference (#60)
UBC-DSCI/introduction-to-datascience: 10-inference.Rmd

    geom_histogram(fill="#0072B2", color="#e9ecef") +
    xlab("Price per night ($)") 

boot1_dist

summarise(boot1, mean = mean(price))
```

Notice that our bootstrap distribution has a similar shape to the original
sample distribution. Though the shapes of the distributions are similar, they
are not identical. You'll also notice that the original sample mean and the
bootstrap sample mean differ. How might that happen? Remember that we are
sampling with replacement from the original sample, so we don't end up with the
same sample values again. We are trying to mimic drawing another sample from
the population without actually having to do that.

Let's now take 1500 bootstrap samples from the original sample we drew from the
population (`one_sample`)  using `rep_sample_n` and calculate the means for
each of those replicates. Recall that this assumes that `one_sample` *looks like*
our original population; but since we do not have access to the population itself,
this is often the best we can do.

```{r 11-bootstrapping4, echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE}
boot1500 <- one_sample %>%
    rep_sample_n(size = 40, replace = TRUE, reps = 1500)
head(boot1500)

> tail(boot1500)

Reviewer: After showing `head` and `tail`, it might be nice to show 6 or so sample distributions to show how they differ, something like this: 

<img width="525" alt="Screen Shot 2020-11-19 at 12 59 34 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6865016/99723508-22df7500-2a67-11eb-808f-eb9543b9b7cb.png">

And then calculate and show the point estimates for these six, or so, samples:

<img width="538" alt="Screen Shot 2020-11-19 at 12 59 48 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6865016/99723555-3094fa80-2a67-11eb-8ebd-1ca698e1e4ba.png">

Reviewer: Source for this is here: https://pages.github.ubc.ca/MDS-2020-21/DSCI_552_stat-inf-1_students/lectures/02_lecture-sampling-and-bootstrapping.html

boot_est_dist <-  ggplot(boot1500_means, aes(x = mean)) +
    geom_histogram(fill="#0072B2", color="#e9ecef") +
    xlab("Sample mean price per night ($)") 
```

Let's compare our bootstrap distribution with the true sampling distribution (taking many samples from the population). 

```{r 11-bootstrapping6, echo = F, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE, fig.cap = "Comparison of distribution of the bootstrap sample means and sampling distribution"}

samples <- rep_sample_n(airbnb, size = 40, reps = 1500)

sample_estimates <- samples %>% 
    group_by(replicate) %>% 
    summarise(sample_mean = mean(price))

sampling_dist <-  ggplot(sample_estimates, aes(x = sample_mean)) +
    geom_histogram(fill="#0072B2", color="#e9ecef") +
    xlab("Sample mean price per night ($)")

sampling_dist <- sampling_dist +
  annotate("text", x = max_x(sampling_dist), max_count(sampling_dist), hjust = 1, vjust =1,
           label = paste("mean = ", round(mean(sample_estimates$sample_mean), 1))) + 
  annotate("text", x = max_x(sampling_dist), max_count(sampling_dist), hjust = 1, vjust =3,

>            label = paste("sd = ", round(sd(sample_estimates$sample_mean), 1))) + 

Reviewer: I don't think we should annotate the standard deviation. Instead we can just eyeball the spread and say that it looks similar.

           label = paste("sd = ", round(sd(boot1500_means$mean), 1))) + 
  geom_vline(xintercept = mean(boot1500_means$mean), col = "red")

grid.arrange(sampling_dist + xlim(min_x(sampling_dist), max_x(sampling_dist)) + ggtitle("Sampling distribution"), 
             annotated_boot_est_dist + xlim(min_x(sampling_dist), max_x(boot_est_dist)) + ggtitle("Bootstrap distribution"),
             ncol = 2)
```
There are two important points that we can take away from these plots.
First, we see how the sampling distribution is centred at \$`r round(mean(airbnb$price),2)`, the 
population mean value, as we learned in
the previous section. However, the bootstrap distribution is centred at \$`r round(mean(boot1500_means$mean), 2)`, which 
is the original sample's mean price per night. This is because we are resampling from the original sample over and
over again, so we see that the bootstrap distribution is centred at the
original sample's mean value. The second important point is that the shape and spread of the true sampling distribution
and the bootstrap distribution is similar; the bootstrap distribution lets us get a sense for the variability of the 

> point estimate.

Reviewer: The most important point here is that the bootstrap distribution pretty well approximates the spread of the sampling distribution. And we can use that spread to help come up with a plausible range for where we expect our population parameter's value to lie. 

A secondary note - is that unlike the sampling distribution's mean, the bootstrap distribution's mean is not the value of the population parameter - this is because all the bootstrap samples came from a single sample from the population - and so most of their means will be similar to that single sample (so the bootstrap distribution's mean, if we did enough replicates would converge on the mean of the single sample).

Here's what I used in my MDS notes this year:

What do we notice?

The shape and spread of the distribution of the bootstrap sample means approximates that of the sampling distribution of sample means!

The means of these two distributions are different: the mean of the boostrap sample means is almost exactly that of the original one sample mean, whereas the mean of the sampling distribution of sample means is almost exactly that of the population parameter we are interested in estimating.

Idea! We can use this distribution of the bootstrap sample means to approximate the sampling distribution of sample means when we only have one sample - and then we can use this to generate a plausible range where we believe the value of true population parameter lies to report along with our estimate!

> ```{r 11-bootstrapping7, echo = F, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE, fig.cap = "Summary of bootstrapping process"}

Reviewer: This diagram is really really great! I still think we should include a more toy version with numbers, like my sketch, earlier in this section when we introduce the bootstrap.

Reviewer: The dots are a bit strange, I understand what you are trying to do here, and it makes sense, however I think it's their placement that is a bit odd...

mygb(x=c(0.35,0.35,0.42,0.42), y=c(0.45,0.45,0.2,0.2))

# arrows: resamples to statistics
mygb(x=c(0.57,0.57,0.62,0.62), y=c(0.8,0.8,0.8,0.8))
mygb(x=c(0.57,0.57,0.62,0.62), y=c(0.5,0.5,0.5,0.5))
mygb(x=c(0.57,0.57,0.62,0.62), y=c(0.2,0.2,0.2,0.2))

# arrows: statistics to boot
mygb(x=c(0.77,0.77,0.83,0.83), y=c(0.8,0.8,0.7,0.7))
mygb(x=c(0.77,0.77,0.83,0.83), y=c(0.5,0.5,0.6,0.6))
mygb(x=c(0.77,0.77,0.83,0.83), y=c(0.2,0.2,0.4,0.4))

# dots 
grid.text(".", x = unit(0.45, "npc"), 
          y = unit(0.04, "npc"),gp = gpar(fontsize=15))
grid.text(".", x = unit(0.45, "npc"), 
          y = unit(0.06, "npc"),gp = gpar(fontsize=15))
grid.text(".", x = unit(0.45, "npc"), 
          y = unit(0.025, "npc"),gp = gpar(fontsize=15))

grid.text(".", x = unit(0.7, "npc"), 
          y = unit(0.14, "npc"),gp = gpar(fontsize=15))
grid.text(".", x = unit(0.7, "npc"), 
          y = unit(0.16, "npc"),gp = gpar(fontsize=15))
grid.text(".", x = unit(0.7, "npc"), 
          y = unit(0.18, "npc"),gp = gpar(fontsize=15))

```

### Using the bootstrap to calculate a plausible range  

Now that we have constructed our bootstrap distribution let's use it to create

> an approximate bootstrap confidence interval, a range of plausible values for the population mean. We will construct a 95\% percentile bootstrap confidence interval and find the range of values that cover the middle 95\% of the bootstrap distribution. Note that there's nothing particularly special about 95\%, we could have used other confidence levels, such as 90\% or 99\%. The confidence level you choose will depend on your application, which is beyond the scope of this textbook.

Reviewer: We need to define a 95% ci here, or this will be jibberish to the students. 

In my MDS notes, I say this (this probably comes from Modern Dive originally, and so we need to be careful to make this our own):

What does a 95% confidence interval mean?

It means that if we were to repeat the process of sampling and calculating a 95% confidence interval many many times, 95% of the time we would expect our population parameter’s value to lie within the confidence interval.

Why 95%?

Commonly used confidence levels include 90%, 95%, and 99%. All other things being equal, higher confidence levels correspond to wider confidence intervals and lower confidence levels correspond to narrower confidence intervals. The level chosen depends on the downstream analysis and what chance you are willing to take of being wrong.

Verbally then I also add that if you have a downstream decision/application where the cost of missing the population parameter in you confidence intervals is high (e.g., impacts human health or well being) then you would tend to choose a higher confidence level.

    select(mean) %>% 
    pull() %>% 
    quantile(c(0.025, 0.975))
bounds
```

Our interval, \$`r round(bounds[1],2) ` to \$`r round(bounds[2],2)`, captures the middle 95\% of the sample mean prices in the bootstrap distribution. We can visualize the interval on our distribution in the picture below. 

```{r 11-bootstrapping9, echo = F, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE, fig.cap = "Distribution of the bootstrap sample means with percentile lower and upper bounds"}
boot_est_dist + 
  geom_vline(xintercept = bounds, col = "#E69F00", size = 2, linetype = 2) + 
  annotate("text", x = bounds[1], max_count(boot_est_dist), hjust = 0.5, vjust =2,
           label = paste("2.5th percentile =", round(bounds[1], 2))) + 
    annotate("text", x = bounds[2], max_count(boot_est_dist), hjust = 0.5, vjust =2,
           label = paste("97.5th percentile =", round(bounds[2], 2)))
```

Here we notice that our interval does indeed contain the true
population mean value, \$`r round(mean(airbnb$price),2)`\! However, in
practice, we would not know whether our interval captured the true population
parameter or not because we usually only have a single sample, not the entire
population.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add however, this is the best we can do when we only have one sample!

Let's add how to report our point estimate and confidence intervals, and revisit what a confidence intervals means. Maybe loop back to the question we asked at the beginning of this section.

Finally, perhaps end on this is only the beginning of the journey into statistical inference, and we can extend the concepts learned here to do much more than report point estimates and confidence intervals, such as hypothesis testing for differences between populations, associations between variables, etc, but what we presented here is the foundation for this... something to wrap this up nicely with a 🎁

## Additional readings

For more about statistical inference and bootstrapping, refer to pages 187-190  

> of [Introduction to Statistical Learning with Applications in R](http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~gareth/ISL/ISLR%20Seventh%20Printing.pdf) by 

Reviewer: I think this book is not that great for this audience, Modern Dive is! And if we wanted to point them to another more traditional approach to inference, I would suggest adding OpenIntro Statistics.

# Introduction to Statistical Inference {#inference}

```{r 11-setup, include= F}
library(tidyverse) 
require(grid) #  grid.bezier()

max_count <- function(dist) {
  max(ggplot_build(dist)$data[[1]]$count)
}

max_x <- function(dist){ 
  max(ggplot_build(dist)$data[[1]]$xmax)
}

min_x <- function(dist) {
  ggp_data <- ggplot_build(dist)
  min(ggp_data$data[[1]]$xmin)
}
```

## Overview

> In almost all data analysis tasks in practice, we want to draw conclusions about some unknown
> aspect of a population of interest based on observed data sampled from that
> population; we typically do not get data on the *full* population.

Reviewer: I would say this is true mainly for inferential questions. In predictive questions, we are interested mainly in predicting future values for individuals, or what features are important for predicting future values for individuals. Maybe soften this statement to "Another common data analysis task in practice is to draw conclusions...

```suggestion
Another common data analysis task in practice is to draw conclusions about some unknown
aspect of a population of interest based on observed data sampled from that
population; we typically do not get data on the *entire* population.
```

* Describe real-world examples of questions that can be answered with the statistical inference.
* Define common population parameters (e.g. mean, proportion, standard deviation) that are often estimated using sampled data, and estimate these from a sample.
* Define the following statistical sampling terms (population, sample, population parameter, point estimate, sampling distribution).
* Explain the difference between a population parameter and sample point estimate.
* Use R to draw random samples from a finite population.
* Use R to create a sampling distribution from a finite population.
* Describe how sample size influences the sampling distribution.
* Define bootstrapping.
* Use R to create a bootstrap distribution to approximate a sampling distribution.
* Contrast the bootstrap and sampling distributions.

## Why do we need sampling? 
Statistical inference can help us decide how quantities we observe in
a subset of data relate to the same quantities in the broader
population. Here is an example question that we might use statistical inference to answer:

*What proportion of all undergraduate students in North America own an iPhone?*

> In the above question, we are interested in making a conclusion about *all*
> undergraduate students in North America.  This is our **population**: 
> in general, the population is the complete collection of individuals or cases we are interested in studying. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above question, we are interested in making a conclusion about *all*
undergraduate students in North America; this is our **population**.
In general, the population is the complete collection of individuals or cases we are interested in studying. 
```

> Further, in the above question, we are interested in computing a quantity&mdash;the proportion
> of iPhone owners&mdash;based on the entire population. This is our **population parameter**:
> in general, a population parameter is a numerical characteristic
> of the entire population. In order to compute this number in the example above, we would need to ask 
> every single undergraduate in North America whether or not they own an iPhone. In practice,
> directly computing population parameters is often time-consuming and costly, and sometimes impossible. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further, in the above question, we are interested in computing a quantity&mdash;the proportion
of iPhone owners&mdash;based on the entire population. This is our **population parameter**.
In general, a population parameter is a numerical characteristic
of the entire population. In order to compute this number in the example above, we would need to ask 
every single undergraduate in North America whether or not they own an iPhone. In practice,
directly computing population parameters is often time-consuming and costly, and sometimes impossible. 
```

> A more practical approach would be to collect measurements for a **sample**: a subset of
> individuals collected from the population. We can then compute a **sample statistic**&mdash;a numerical
> characteristic of the sample&mdash;that estimates the population parameter. For example, if we 
> randomly selected 100 undergraduate students across North America (the sample) and computed the fraction of those
> students who own an iPhone (the sample statistic), we might suspect that that fraction is a reasonable
> estimate of the full population fraction. 

Reviewer: We should keep the language consistent here, stick with proportion:

```suggestion
A more practical approach would be to collect measurements for a **sample**: a subset of
individuals collected from the population. We can then compute a **sample statistic**&mdash;a numerical
characteristic of the sample&mdash;that estimates the population parameter. For example, if we 
randomly selected 100 undergraduate students across North America (the sample) and computed the proportion of those
students who own an iPhone (the sample statistic), we might suspect that that proportion is a reasonable
estimate of the proportion of students who own an iPhone in the entire population. 
```

Reviewer: Also, do we want to use point estimate in the overview and then switch to sample statistic here?

<center>

> ![Figure 11.1: Population versus sample](img/population_vs_sample.svg){}

Reviewer: We should have a figure caption for all figures (we will need to do this for the timbits image too). I think it's easiest to do this using `knitr::include_graphics`. You might want to include `fig.retina = 2` as a code chunk option to make the image crisp and sharp, and `fig.cap` to specify the caption.

</center>

> 

Reviewer: I think we need to add some motivation to our iPhone question. Who would be interested in asking and answering this question? And why? Maybe a cell phone retailer that sells iPhones and wants to understand the amount of available market left? Or maybe they sell iPhone accessories, or are thinking of starting to, and they want to estimate how big the market might be?

Author: updated scenario with motivating example

Note that proportions are not the *only* kind of population parameter we might be interested in.
Let's consider another example question that we might tackle with statistical inference:

> *What is the average price-per-night of one-bedroom apartment rentals in Vancouver, Canada?*

Reviewer: Same for this question. Let's add a sentence or two motivating this question. Perhaps undergraduates starting at UBC are looking for an apartment and they want to know what is an "average" price? If we do go with undergraduates to motivate this, we might have to use a more realistic rental unit, studio apartment? bedroom in shared accommodation?

Reviewer: Maybe the scenario is that they are trying to make a budget?

Author: updated scenario with motivation

Here, the population consists of all one-bedroom apartment rental offerings in Vancouver, and the population
parameter is the *average price-per-night*. But even within this one example, we could also be interested
in many other population parameters: the median price, the fraction of 
one-bedroom apartments that cost more than \$200 per night,
the standard deviation of the price, and the list goes on.
If we were somehow able to observe the whole population of one-bedroom apartments in Vancouver, 
we could compute each of these numbers exactly; therefore these are all population parameters. 
There are many kinds of observations and population parameters that you will run into in practice,

> but in this chapter we will focus on two settings:

Reviewer: I think we should emphasize that you choose the parameter to estimate based on the question you are asking. For example, if you are interested in the most commonly observed values in the population, then the mean generally, is a good parameter to estimate if your data is quantitative. If however, you were interested in how much values vary in the population, then you would want to estimate something else, like the standard deviation or variance. Or if you were interested in knowing the highest values in a population, you would estimate a quantile (e.g., a 95th percentile).

Author: provided more explanation here and removed some of the statistics mentioned or provided a brief explanation

1. Using categorical observations to estimate the proportion of each category
2. Using quantitative observations to estimate the average (or mean)

## Sampling distributions

### Sampling distributions for proportions

Let's start with an illustrative (and tasty!) example. Timbits are 
bite-sized doughnuts sold at Tim Hortons, a popular Canadian-based fast-food restaurant
chain founded in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 

> ![Timbits. Source: wikimedia.org](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/75/Timbits2.jpg/1600px-Timbits2.jpg){width=50%} 

Reviewer: I think we can create our own timbits photo 😉  I volunteer for this job 😋 !

Author: Thanks, Tiffany! I will leave this for you 👍

Now imagine we took another random sample of 40 Timbits from the population. Do you
think you would get the same proportion? Let's try sampling from the population
again and see what happens. 

```{r 11-example-proportions4, echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE}
set.seed(2)
samples_2 <- rep_sample_n(virtual_box, size = 40)
choc_sample_2 <- summarize(samples_2, n = sum(flavour == "chocolate"),
                                        prop = sum(flavour == "chocolate") / 40)
choc_sample_2
```

Notice that we get a different value for our statistic this time. The
proportion of chocolate Timbits in this sample is `r round(choc_sample_2$prop, 2)`. 
If we were to do this again, another random sample could also give a
different result. Statistics vary from sample to sample 
due to **sampling variability**. 

But just how much should we expect the statistics of our random
samples to vary? In order to understand this, we will simulate more samples
of size 40 from our population of Timbits, and calculate the 
proportion of chocolate Timbits in each sample. We can then
construct the distribution of sample proportions we calculate. The distribution

> of the statistic for all possible samples of size $n$ from a population is
> called a **sampling distribution**. The sampling distribution will help us see
> how much we would expect our sample proportions from this population to vary
> for samples of size 40. Below we again use the `rep_sample_n` to take samples
> of size 40 from our population of Timbits, but we set the `reps` argument
> to specify the number of samples to take.

Reviewer: We have not yet defined n
```suggestion
of the estimate for all possible samples of a given size (which we commonly refer to as $n$) from a population is
called a **sampling distribution**. The sampling distribution will help us see
how much we would expect our sample proportions from this population to vary
for samples of size 40. Below we again use the `rep_sample_n` to take samples
of size 40 from our population of Timbits, but we set the `reps` argument
to specify the number of samples to take, here 1000.
```

```{r 11-example-proportions5, echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE}
samples <- rep_sample_n(virtual_box, size = 40, reps = 1000)
head(samples)

> tail(samples)

Reviewer: Here the use of `head` and `tail` are warranted so that we can see both ends of the tibble. If we drop `head` from earlier on in the book we might then need to explain what is happening here.

Author: added an explanation of head() and tail() so we can remove from other chapters

```

> Notice the column `replicate` is indicating the replicate with which each
> Timbit belongs. Since we took 1000 samples of size 40, there are 1000 replicates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the column `replicate` is indicating the replicate, or sample, with which each
Timbit belongs. Since we took 1000 samples of size 40, there are 1000 replicates.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have taken 1000 samples, to create a sampling distribution of sample proportions for samples of size 40, we need to calculate the proportion of chocolate Timbits for each sample, $\hat{p_\text{chocolate}}$:
```

```{r 11-example-proportions6, echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE}
sample_estimates <- samples %>% 
    group_by(replicate) %>% 
    summarise(sample_proportion = sum(flavour == "chocolate") / 40)
head(sample_estimates)
tail(sample_estimates)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have calculated the proportion of chocolate Timbits for each sample, $\hat{p_\text{chocolate}}$, we can visualize the sampling distribution of sample proportions for samples of size 40:
```

```{r 11-example-proportions7, echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE,fig.cap = "Sampling distribution of the sample proportion for sample size 40"}

> sampling_distribution <-  ggplot(sample_estimates, aes(x = sample_proportion)) +

Reviewer: figure is bigger than necessary

Author: changed out.width to 70%

>     geom_histogram(fill="#0072B2", color="#e9ecef", binwidth = 0.05) +

Reviewer: Can we use human readable names for the colours here? These hex colours are a bit confusing/distracting for first year students. Also, I think `bins` is easier to understand and use in histogram than `bindwidth` (where you need to think about scale for each kind of data you are working with).

Author: Changed hex to readable names, changed binwidth to bins

    xlab("Sample proportions") 
sampling_distribution
```

The sampling distribution appears to be bell-shaped with one peak. It is
centered around `r round(mean(sample_estimates$sample_proportion),1)` and the
sample proportions range from about `r round(min(sample_estimates$sample_proportion), 1)` to 
about `r round(max(sample_estimates$sample_proportion), 1)`. In fact, we can calculate
the mean and standard deviation of the sample proportions. 

```{r 11-example-proportions8, echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE}
sample_estimates %>% 
  summarise(mean = mean(sample_proportion), sd = sd(sample_proportion))
```

> We notice that the sample proportions are centred around the population

Reviewer: We need more oomf here! It's actually pretty cool and incredible that the centre of the sampling distribution is the same as the population parameter. Here we don't actually see that, because we didn't take enough replicates. Let's actually take 10,000 or even 15,000 reps in this book. Our laptops are fast enough and then these two numbers will be closer, and our argument will be more convincing. 

Also - we need to bring this back to what we are doing! This distributions tells us what we might expect when taking a single random sample. And if we can somehow learn how to predict what sampling distributions should look like for any sample, we can use this knowledge to report more than just a single point estimate when we report our estimation results when we are in the more common, and realistic scenario of only having a single sample.

Author: upped the reps to 15000, added a summary paragraph at the end of proportions section

<!--- > **Note:** If random samples of size $n$ are taken from a population, $\hat{p}$ will be approximately Normal with mean $p$ and standard deviation $\sqrt{\frac{p(1-p)}{n}}$ as long as the sample size $n$ is large enough such that $np$ and $n(1 - p)$ are at least 10, where $p$ is the population proportion, $\hat{p}$ is the sample proportion and $n$ is the sample size. 
--->

### Sampling distributions for means 

In the previous section, our variable of interest&mdash;Timbit flavour&mdash;was
*categorical*, and the population parameter of interest was the proportion of chocolate
Timbits. What if we wanted to infer something about a population of *quantitative* variables instead?
As mentioned in the introduction to this chapter, there are many choices of population parameter
for each type of observed variable. In this section, we will study the case where we are interested
in the population mean of a quantitative variable.

In particular, we will look at an example using data from Airbnb, an online
marketplace for arranging or offering places to stay. The dataset contains
Airbnb listings for Vancouver, Canada, in September 2020 
from [Inside Airbnb](http://insideairbnb.com/). 

> Let's imagine (for learning purposes) that our dataset represents the population of all Airbnb rental listings in Vancouver,

Reviewer: If this is indeed the rates for all of Vancouver AirBnBs, can we not take a stronger stance and say that this is our population?

Author: @ttimbers Yeah, I thought about this too before, I wasn't sure if I should say that since then we would have to be super specific about defining the population since this data was scrapped in September 2020 so I guess the population is Airbnb listings available only in September 2020. I thought it would be strange since what if we want to make inference about Airbnb data in October or something so I thought it would be best to say this isn't population data. I can change it if you feel strongly, but I thought it would be more confusing if we said it was!

> and we are interested in the population mean price per night.

Reviewer: This comes too late, let's move our question (well let's actually write an inferential question for this case) up to the third sentence of the first paragraph of this section.

Author: moved up to first paragraph, added question we want to answer

Our data contains an ID number, neighbourhood,
type of room, the number of people that the rental accommodates, number of
bathrooms, bedrooms, beds, and the price per night.

```{r 11-example-means1, echo = FALSE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE}
airbnb <- read_csv("data/listings.csv") %>% 
  select(id, neighbourhood = neighbourhood_cleansed, room_type, accommodates, bathrooms = bathrooms_text, bedrooms, beds,  price) %>% 
  mutate(price = as.numeric(str_remove(price, "[$]"))) %>% 
  na.omit()
airbnb <- airbnb %>% 
  mutate(id = 1:nrow(airbnb))
head(airbnb)
```

We can visualize the population distribution of the price per night with a histogram. 

> ```{r 11-example-means2, echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE, fig.cap = "Population distribution of price per night ($) for all Airbnb listings in Vancouver, Canada"}

Reviewer: figure is bigger than necessary

population_distribution <-  ggplot(airbnb, aes(x = price)) +

>     geom_histogram(fill="#0072B2", color="#e9ecef") +

Reviewer: again, let's use names for colours. There is this useful PDF that can help with this: http://www.stat.columbia.edu/~tzheng/files/Rcolor.pdf

    xlab("Price per night ($)") 

> population_distribution

Reviewer: We should have some narration about what we are calculating here. Also, I see no need to calculate the standard deviation...

Author: added some narration, removed sd calculation

population_parameters <- airbnb %>% 
    summarize(pop_mean = mean(price),
             pop_sd = sd(price))
population_parameters
```

We see that the distribution has one peak and is skewed&mdash;most of the listings
are less than \$250 per night, but a small proportion of listings cost more
than that, creating a long tail on the histogram's right side. 
The population mean is \$`r round(population_parameters$pop_mean,2)` and the

> population standard deviation is \$`r round(population_parameters$pop_sd, 2)`.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to calculate the sd, we don't really do anything with it...

Author: removed sd from this example

> Suppose we take a sample of 20 observations from our population. Below we 

Reviewer: Why such a small sample size? It might be better/simpler to pick a larger sample size where CLT kicks in, even if we don't talk about it here.

Author: changed sample size to 40

> Suppose we take a sample of 20 observations from our population. Below we 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose that we did not have access to the population data, yet we still wanted to estimate the mean price per night? We could answer this question by taking a random sample of as many AirBnB listings as we had time to, let's say we could do this for 40 listings. What would such a sample look like?

Let's take advantage of the fact that we do have access to the population data and simulate taking one random sample of 40 listings in R, again using `rep_sample_n`. After doing this we
```

create a histogram to visualize the
distribution of observations in the sample,
and calculate the mean and standard deviation of our sample. These two numbers

> are **point estimates** for the mean and standard deviation of the full population.

Reviewer: again, remove sd, and just focus on one parameter to estimate?

Author: removed sd

> ```{r 11-example-means3, echo = TRUE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE, fig.cap = "Distribution of price per night ($) for sample of 20 Airbnb listings"}

Reviewer: figure is bigger than necessary

Author: changed out.width to 70%

was \$`r round(population_parameters$pop_sd,2)`. We see that our point
estimates for the mean and standard deviation 
are \$`r round(estimates$sample_mean, 2)` and  \$`r round(estimates$sample_sd,2)`,
respectively. So our estimates were actually quite close to the population parameters: the mean was 
about `r round(100*abs(estimates$sample_mean - population_parameters$pop_mean)/population_parameters$pop_mean, 1)`% off,
while the standard deviation was 
about `r round(100*abs(estimates$sample_sd - population_parameters$pop_sd)/population_parameters$pop_sd, 1)`% off.
Note that in practice, we usually cannot compute the accuracy of the estimate, since we do not have access to the population
parameter; if we did, we wouldn't need to estimate it!

Also recall from the previous section that the point estimate can vary; if 
we took another random sample from the population, then the value of our statistic may change.
So then did we just get lucky with our point estimate above?
How much does our estimate vary across different samples of size 20 in this example? Again, since we have access to the population,

> we can take many samples and plot the **sampling distribution** of the point estimates to get a sense

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we can take many samples and plot the **sampling distribution** of sample means for samples of size 20 to get a sense
```

> for this variation. In this case, we'll use 1500 samples of size 20.

Reviewer: Again, we have fast laptops, let's up the reps a bit.

Author: increased to 15000

```

Here we see that the sampling distribution of the mean has one peak and is
bell-shaped. Most of the estimates are between 
about  \$`r round(quantile(sample_estimates$sample_mean)[2], -1)` and 
\$`r round(quantile(sample_estimates$sample_mean)[4], -1)`; but there are
a good fraction of cases outside this range (i.e., where the point estimate
was not close to the population parameter). So it does indeed look like we were quite lucky
when we estimated the population mean 
with only `r round(100*abs(estimates$sample_mean - population_parameters$pop_mean)/population_parameters$pop_mean, 1)`% error.
Let's visualize the population
distribution, distribution of the sample, and the sampling distribution on one 
plot to compare them.
<!---
```{r 11-example-means4.5}
sample_estimates %>% 
  summarise(mean_of_sample_means = mean(sample_mean))
```
Notice that the mean of the sample means is \$`r round(mean(sample_estimates$sample_mean),2)`. Recall that the population mean
was \$`r round(mean(airbnb$price),2)`. 
-->

```{r 11-example-means5, echo = FALSE, message = FALSE, warning = FALSE, fig.cap = "Comparision of population distribution, sample distribution and sampling distribution"}

> grid.arrange(population_distribution + ggtitle("Population distribution"), 

Reviewer: maybe shrink the width of this panel plot? And should we add the sample size for the bottom plot, given that is only the sampling dist of the mean for that sample size?

Reviewer: Also, you need to keep the x-axes the same here. So that the plots are comparable.

Author: changed the plot width, indicated sample size and changed x axis

    annotate("text", x =  max_x(sampling_distribution_20), y = max_count(sampling_distribution_100), hjust = 1, vjust = 3,
               label = paste("sd = ", round(sd(sample_estimates_100$sample_mean), 1)))

annotated_sampling_dist_500 <- sampling_distribution_500 + 
    geom_vline(xintercept = mean(sample_estimates_500$sample_mean), col = "red") +
    annotate("text", x =  max_x(sampling_distribution_20), y = max_count(sampling_distribution_500), hjust = 1, vjust = 1,
             label = paste("mean = ", round(mean(sample_estimates_500$sample_mean), 1)))+
    annotate("text", x =  max_x(sampling_distribution_20), y = max_count(sampling_distribution_500), hjust = 1, vjust = 3,
               label = paste("sd = ", round(sd(sample_estimates_500$sample_mean), 1)))

grid.arrange(annotated_sampling_dist_20, 
             annotated_sampling_dist_50, 
             annotated_sampling_dist_100,  
             annotated_sampling_dist_500,  
             nrow = 2, ncol = 2) 
```

Based on the visualization, two points about the sample mean become clear.
First, the
mean of the sample mean (across samples) is equal to the population mean.
Second, increasing the size of the sample

> decreases the standard deviation (i.e., the variability) in the sample mean

Reviewer: ```suggestion
decreases the spread (i.e., the variability) in the sample mean
```
